USAGE.md, before:

# Usage and examples

```
$ helm secrets help
GnuPG secrets encryption in Helm Charts

This plugin provides ability to encrypt/decrypt secrets files
to store in less secure places, before they are installed using
Helm.

To decrypt/encrypt/edit you need to initialize/first encrypt secrets with
sops - https://github.com/mozilla/sops

Available Commands:
  enc     Encrypt secrets file
  dec     Decrypt secrets file
  view    Print secrets decrypted
  edit    Edit secrets file and encrypt afterwards
  clean   Remove all decrypted files in specified directory (recursively)
  <cmd>   wrapper that decrypts secrets[.*].yaml files before running helm <cmd>
```

By convention, files containing secrets are named `secrets.yaml`, or anything beginning with "secrets" and ending with ".yaml". E.g. `secrets.test.yaml`, `secrets.prod.yaml` `secretsCOOL.yaml`.

Decrypted files have the suffix ".yaml.dec" by default. This can be changed using the `HELM_SECRETS_DEC_SUFFIX` environment variable.

## Basic commands:

```
  enc           Encrypt secrets file
  dec           Decrypt secrets file
  view          Print decrypted secrets file
  edit          Edit secrets file (decrypt before and encrypt after)
  clean         Delete *.yaml.dec files in directory (recursively)
```

Each of these commands have their own help.

# Use case and workflow

## Usage examples

Note: You need to run `gpg --import tests/assets/gpg/private.gpg` in order to successfully decrypt secrets included in the examples

### Decrypt

The decrypt operation decrypts a secrets.yaml file and saves the decrypted result in secrets.yaml.dec:

```bash
helm secrets dec examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

The secrets.yaml.dec file:

```
podAnnotations:
    secret: value
```

Note that if the secrets.yaml.dec file already exists and is newer than secrets.yaml, it will not be overwritten:

```
$ helm secrets dec examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Decrypting examples/sops/secrets.yaml
examples/sops/secrets.yaml.dec is newer than examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

### Encrypt

The encrypt operation encrypts a secrets.yaml.dec file and saves the encrypted result in secrets.yaml:

If you initially have an unencrypted secrets.yaml file, it will be used as input and will be overwritten:

```
$ helm secrets enc examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Encrypting examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Encrypted examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

If you already have an encrypted secrets.yaml file and a decrypted secrets.yaml.dec file, encrypting will encrypt secrets.yaml.dec to secrets.yaml:

```
$ helm secrets dec examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Decrypting examples/sops/secrets.yaml
$ helm secrets enc examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Encrypting examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Encrypted examples/sops/secrets.yaml.dec to examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

### View

The view operation decrypts secrets.yaml and prints it to stdout:

```
$ helm secrets view examples/sops/secrets.yaml
podAnnotations:
    secret: value
```

### Edit

The edit operation will decrypt the secrets.yaml file and open it in an editor. If the file is modified, it will be encrypted again after you exit the editor.

```
$ helm secrets edit examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

There is new feature in SOPS master that allows using \$EDITOR to spcify editor used by sops but not released yet.

### Clean

The operation will delete all decrypted files in a directory, recursively:

```
$ helm secrets clean examples/sops/
removed examples/sops/secrets.yaml.dec
```

If you use git there is commit hook that prevents commiting decrypted files and you can add all \*.yaml.dec files in you repository `.gitignore` file.

### Summary

- Values/Secrets data are not a part of the chart. You need to manage your values, public charts contains mostly defaults without secrets - data vs code
- To use the helm-secrets plugin you should build your `.sops.yaml` rules to make everything automatic
- Use helm secrets <enc|dec|view|edit> for everyday work with you secret yaml files
- Use version control systems like GIT to work in teams and get history of versions
- Everyday search keys is simple even with encrypted files or decrypt on-the-fly with git diff config included
- With example helm_vars you can manage multiple world locations with multiple projects that contain multiple environments
- With the helm wrapper you can easily run "helm secrets install/upgrade/rollback" with secrets files included as `-f` option from you helm_vars values dir tree.

We use vars for Helm Charts from separate directory tree with the structure like this:

```
charts/
├── .sops.yaml
└── projectX
    ├── .sops.yaml
    ├── stages
    │   ├── dev
    │   │   ├── secrets.yaml
    │   │   └── env.yaml
    │   └── test
    │       ├── secrets.yaml
    │       └── env.yaml
    ├── secrets.yaml
    └── values.yaml
```

As you can see we can run different PGP or KMS keys per project, globally or per any tree level. Thanks to this we can isolate tree on different CI/CD instances using same GIT repository.
As we use simple -f option when running the helm wrapper we can just use encrypted secrets.yaml and all these secrets will be decrypted and cleaned on the fly before and after helm run.

`.sops.yaml` file example

```
---
creation_rules:
 Encrypt with AWS KMS
- kms: 'arn:aws:kms:us-east-1:222222222222:key/111b1c11-1c11-1fd1-aa11-a1c1a1sa1dsl1+arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/helm_secrets'

 Encrypt using GCP KMS
- gcp_kms: projects/mygcproject/locations/global/keyRings/mykeyring/cryptoKeys/thekey

 As failover encrypt with PGP (obtan via gpg --list-secret-keys)
- pgp: '000111122223333444AAAADDDDFFFFGGGG000999'

 For more help look at https://github.com/mozilla/sops
```

Multiple KMS and PGP are allowed.

Everything is described in SOPS docs - links in this project description.

## Helm Wrapper

Running helm to install/upgrade chart with our secrets files is simple with the included helm wrapper which will decrypt on-the-fly and use decrypted secrets files in the actual helm command.

The wrapper enables you to call these helm commands with on-the-fly decryption of secrets files passed as `-f` or `--values` arguments. Instead of calling e.g. `helm install ...` you can call `helm secrets install ...` to get on-the-fly decryption.

The diff command is a separate helm plugin, [helm-diff](https://github.com/databus23/helm-diff). Using it you can view the changes that would be deployed before deploying. In the same way as above, instead of calling e.g. `helm diff upgrade ...` you can call `helm secrets diff upgrade ...`, and so on.

Note that if a decrypted secrets.yaml.dec file exists and is newer then the secrets.yaml file, it will be used in the wrapped command rather than decrypting secrets.yaml.

Real example of the helm wrapper usage with simple java helloworld application.

```
AWS_PROFILE=sandbox helm secrets upgrade \
  helloworld \
  stable/java-app \
  --install \
  --timeout 600 \
  --wait \
  --kube-context=sandbox \
  --namespace=projectx \
  --set global.app_version=bff8fc4 \
  -f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/values.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/secrets.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/values.yaml

Release "helloworld" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
LAST DEPLOYED: Fri May  5 13:27:01 2017
NAMESPACE: projectx
STATUS: DEPLOYED

RESOURCES:
==> extensions/v1beta1/Deployment
NAME        DESIRED  CURRENT  UP-TO-DATE  AVAILABLE  AGE
helloworld  3        3        3           2          1h

==> v1/Secret
NAME        TYPE    DATA  AGE
helloworld  Opaque  10    1h

==> v1/ConfigMap
NAME        DATA  AGE
helloworld  2     1h

==> v1/Service
NAME        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP  PORT(S)   AGE
helloworld  100.65.221.245  <none>       8080/TCP  1h

NOTES:
Deploy success helloworld-bff8fc4 in namespace projectx

removed helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml.dec
removed helm_vars/secrets.yaml.dec
```

You can see that we use a global secrets file and a specific secrets file for this app in this project/environment/region. We use some plain value files next to secrets. We use values from secrets in some secrets template in helloworld application chart template and some values are used in the configmap template in the same chart. Some values are added as env variables in deployment manifest templates in the chart. As you can see we can use secrets and values in helm in many ways. Everything depends on use case.

Even when helm failed then decrypted files are cleaned

```
AWS_PROFILE=sandbox helm-wrapper upgrade \
  helloworld \
  stable/java-app \
  --install \
  --timeout 600 \
  --wait \
  --kube-context=wrongcontext \
  --namespace=projectx \
  --set global.app_version=bff8fc4 \
  -f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/values.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/secrets.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/values.yaml

Error: could not get kubernetes config for context 'wrongcontext': context "wrongcontext" does not exist

removed helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml.dec
removed helm_vars/secrets.yaml.dec
```

### Using secret values in Helm chart secrets template

We just need to create Kubernetes secrets template in chart templates dir.
For example in your charts repo you have `stable/helloworld/`. Inside this chart you should have `stable/helloworld/templates/` dir and then create the `stable/helloworld/templates/secrets.yaml` file with content as specified bellow.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: helloworld
  labels:
    app: helloworld
    chart: "{{ .Chart.Name }}-{{ .Chart.Version }}"
    release: "{{ .Release.Name }}"
    heritage: "{{ .Release.Service }}"
type: Opaque
data:
  my_secret_key: {{ .Values.secret_sandbox_helloworld | b64enc | quote }}
```

In this example you have a Kubernetes secret named "helloworld" and data inside this secret will be filled in from values defined in `-f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml`. We use `.Values.secret_sandbox_helloworld` to refer to the value in the decrypted secret file. In this way, the value from the decrypted `helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml` will be available as `my_secret_key` in Kubernetes.

You can now use the "helloworld" secret in your deployment manifest (or any other manifest supporting secretKeyRef) in the env section like this:

```
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
...
...
        containers:
        ...
        ...
          env:
            - name: my_new_secret_key
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: helloworld
                  key: my_secret_key
```

# Important Tips

## Prevent committing decrypted files to git

If you like to secure situation when decrypted file is committed by mistake to git you can add your secrets.yaml.dec files to you charts project repository `.gitignore`.

A second level of security is to add for example a `.sopscommithook` file inside your chart repository local commit hook.

This will prevent committing decrypted files without sops metadata.

`.sopscommithook` content example:

```
!/bin/sh

for FILE in $(git diff-index HEAD --name-only | grep <your vars dir> | grep "secrets.y"); do
    if [ -f "$FILE" ] && ! grep -C10000 "sops:" $FILE | grep -q "version:"; then
        echo "!!!!! $FILE" 'File is not encrypted !!!!!'
        echo "Run: helm secrets enc <file path>"
        exit 1
    fi
done
exit
```

Additionally you could create a `.gitignore` to exclude decrypted files from checkin:

```gitignore
*.yaml.dec
```

Commit message:

Remove secret file name restriction

USAGE.md, after:

# Usage and examples

```
$ helm secrets help
GnuPG secrets encryption in Helm Charts

This plugin provides ability to encrypt/decrypt secrets files
to store in less secure places, before they are installed using
Helm.

To decrypt/encrypt/edit you need to initialize/first encrypt secrets with
sops - https://github.com/mozilla/sops

Available Commands:
  enc     Encrypt secrets file
  dec     Decrypt secrets file
  view    Print secrets decrypted
  edit    Edit secrets file and encrypt afterwards
  clean   Remove all decrypted files in specified directory (recursively)
  <cmd>   wrapper that decrypts secrets[.*].yaml files before running helm <cmd>
```

By convention, files containing secrets are named `secrets.yaml`, or anything beginning with "secrets" and ending with ".yaml". E.g. `secrets.test.yaml`, `secrets.prod.yaml` `secretsCOOL.yaml`.

**But unlike zendesk/helm-secrets, you can name your secret file as you want**

Decrypted files have the suffix ".yaml.dec" by default. This can be changed using the `HELM_SECRETS_DEC_SUFFIX` environment variable.

## Basic commands:

```
  enc           Encrypt secrets file
  dec           Decrypt secrets file
  view          Print decrypted secrets file
  edit          Edit secrets file (decrypt before and encrypt after)
  clean         Delete *.yaml.dec files in directory (recursively)
```

Each of these commands have their own help.

# Use case and workflow

## Usage examples

Note: You need to run `gpg --import tests/assets/gpg/private.gpg` in order to successfully decrypt secrets included in the examples

### Decrypt

The decrypt operation decrypts a secrets.yaml file and saves the decrypted result in secrets.yaml.dec:

```bash
helm secrets dec examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

The secrets.yaml.dec file:

```
podAnnotations:
    secret: value
```

Note that if the secrets.yaml.dec file already exists and is newer than secrets.yaml, it will not be overwritten:

```
$ helm secrets dec examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Decrypting examples/sops/secrets.yaml
examples/sops/secrets.yaml.dec is newer than examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

### Encrypt

The encrypt operation encrypts a secrets.yaml.dec file and saves the encrypted result in secrets.yaml:

If you initially have an unencrypted secrets.yaml file, it will be used as input and will be overwritten:

```
$ helm secrets enc examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Encrypting examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Encrypted examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

If you already have an encrypted secrets.yaml file and a decrypted secrets.yaml.dec file, encrypting will encrypt secrets.yaml.dec to secrets.yaml:

```
$ helm secrets dec examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Decrypting examples/sops/secrets.yaml
$ helm secrets enc examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Encrypting examples/sops/secrets.yaml
Encrypted examples/sops/secrets.yaml.dec to examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

### View

The view operation decrypts secrets.yaml and prints it to stdout:

```
$ helm secrets view examples/sops/secrets.yaml
podAnnotations:
    secret: value
```

### Edit

The edit operation will decrypt the secrets.yaml file and open it in an editor. If the file is modified, it will be encrypted again after you exit the editor.

```
$ helm secrets edit examples/sops/secrets.yaml
```

There is new feature in SOPS master that allows using \$EDITOR to spcify editor used by sops but not released yet.

### Clean

The operation will delete all decrypted files in a directory, recursively:

```
$ helm secrets clean examples/sops/
removed examples/sops/secrets.yaml.dec
```

If you use git there is commit hook that prevents commiting decrypted files and you can add all \*.yaml.dec files in you repository `.gitignore` file.

### Summary

- Values/Secrets data are not a part of the chart. You need to manage your values, public charts contains mostly defaults without secrets - data vs code
- To use the helm-secrets plugin you should build your `.sops.yaml` rules to make everything automatic
- Use helm secrets <enc|dec|view|edit> for everyday work with you secret yaml files
- Use version control systems like GIT to work in teams and get history of versions
- Everyday search keys is simple even with encrypted files or decrypt on-the-fly with git diff config included
- With example helm_vars you can manage multiple world locations with multiple projects that contain multiple environments
- With the helm wrapper you can easily run "helm secrets install/upgrade/rollback" with secrets files included as `-f` option from you helm_vars values dir tree.

We use vars for Helm Charts from separate directory tree with the structure like this:

```
charts/
├── .sops.yaml
└── projectX
    ├── .sops.yaml
    ├── stages
    │   ├── dev
    │   │   ├── secrets.yaml
    │   │   └── env.yaml
    │   └── test
    │       ├── secrets.yaml
    │       └── env.yaml
    ├── secrets.yaml
    └── values.yaml
```

As you can see we can run different PGP or KMS keys per project, globally or per any tree level. Thanks to this we can isolate tree on different CI/CD instances using same GIT repository.
As we use simple -f option when running the helm wrapper we can just use encrypted secrets.yaml and all these secrets will be decrypted and cleaned on the fly before and after helm run.

`.sops.yaml` file example

```
---
creation_rules:
 Encrypt with AWS KMS
- kms: 'arn:aws:kms:us-east-1:222222222222:key/111b1c11-1c11-1fd1-aa11-a1c1a1sa1dsl1+arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/helm_secrets'

 Encrypt using GCP KMS
- gcp_kms: projects/mygcproject/locations/global/keyRings/mykeyring/cryptoKeys/thekey

 As failover encrypt with PGP (obtan via gpg --list-secret-keys)
- pgp: '000111122223333444AAAADDDDFFFFGGGG000999'

 For more help look at https://github.com/mozilla/sops
```

Multiple KMS and PGP are allowed.

Everything is described in SOPS docs - links in this project description.

## Helm Wrapper

Running helm to install/upgrade chart with our secrets files is simple with the included helm wrapper which will decrypt on-the-fly and use decrypted secrets files in the actual helm command.

The wrapper enables you to call these helm commands with on-the-fly decryption of secrets files passed as `-f` or `--values` arguments. Instead of calling e.g. `helm install ...` you can call `helm secrets install ...` to get on-the-fly decryption.

The diff command is a separate helm plugin, [helm-diff](https://github.com/databus23/helm-diff). Using it you can view the changes that would be deployed before deploying. In the same way as above, instead of calling e.g. `helm diff upgrade ...` you can call `helm secrets diff upgrade ...`, and so on.

Note that if a decrypted secrets.yaml.dec file exists and is newer then the secrets.yaml file, it will be used in the wrapped command rather than decrypting secrets.yaml.

Real example of the helm wrapper usage with simple java helloworld application.

```
AWS_PROFILE=sandbox helm secrets upgrade \
  helloworld \
  stable/java-app \
  --install \
  --timeout 600 \
  --wait \
  --kube-context=sandbox \
  --namespace=projectx \
  --set global.app_version=bff8fc4 \
  -f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/values.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/secrets.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/values.yaml

Release "helloworld" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
LAST DEPLOYED: Fri May  5 13:27:01 2017
NAMESPACE: projectx
STATUS: DEPLOYED

RESOURCES:
==> extensions/v1beta1/Deployment
NAME        DESIRED  CURRENT  UP-TO-DATE  AVAILABLE  AGE
helloworld  3        3        3           2          1h

==> v1/Secret
NAME        TYPE    DATA  AGE
helloworld  Opaque  10    1h

==> v1/ConfigMap
NAME        DATA  AGE
helloworld  2     1h

==> v1/Service
NAME        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP  PORT(S)   AGE
helloworld  100.65.221.245  <none>       8080/TCP  1h

NOTES:
Deploy success helloworld-bff8fc4 in namespace projectx

removed helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml.dec
removed helm_vars/secrets.yaml.dec
```

You can see that we use a global secrets file and a specific secrets file for this app in this project/environment/region. We use some plain value files next to secrets. We use values from secrets in some secrets template in helloworld application chart template and some values are used in the configmap template in the same chart. Some values are added as env variables in deployment manifest templates in the chart. As you can see we can use secrets and values in helm in many ways. Everything depends on use case.

Even when helm failed then decrypted files are cleaned

```
AWS_PROFILE=sandbox helm-wrapper upgrade \
  helloworld \
  stable/java-app \
  --install \
  --timeout 600 \
  --wait \
  --kube-context=wrongcontext \
  --namespace=projectx \
  --set global.app_version=bff8fc4 \
  -f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/values.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/secrets.yaml \
  -f helm_vars/values.yaml

Error: could not get kubernetes config for context 'wrongcontext': context "wrongcontext" does not exist

removed helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml.dec
removed helm_vars/secrets.yaml.dec
```

### Using secret values in Helm chart secrets template

We just need to create Kubernetes secrets template in chart templates dir.
For example in your charts repo you have `stable/helloworld/`. Inside this chart you should have `stable/helloworld/templates/` dir and then create the `stable/helloworld/templates/secrets.yaml` file with content as specified bellow.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: helloworld
  labels:
    app: helloworld
    chart: "{{ .Chart.Name }}-{{ .Chart.Version }}"
    release: "{{ .Release.Name }}"
    heritage: "{{ .Release.Service }}"
type: Opaque
data:
  my_secret_key: {{ .Values.secret_sandbox_helloworld | b64enc | quote }}
```

In this example you have a Kubernetes secret named "helloworld" and data inside this secret will be filled in from values defined in `-f helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml`. We use `.Values.secret_sandbox_helloworld` to refer to the value in the decrypted secret file. In this way, the value from the decrypted `helm_vars/projectx/sandbox/us-east-1/java-app/helloworld/secrets.yaml` will be available as `my_secret_key` in Kubernetes.

You can now use the "helloworld" secret in your deployment manifest (or any other manifest supporting secretKeyRef) in the env section like this:

```
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
...
...
        containers:
        ...
        ...
          env:
            - name: my_new_secret_key
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: helloworld
                  key: my_secret_key
```

# Important Tips

## Prevent committing decrypted files to git

If you like to secure situation when decrypted file is committed by mistake to git you can add your secrets.yaml.dec files to you charts project repository `.gitignore`.

A second level of security is to add for example a `.sopscommithook` file inside your chart repository local commit hook.

This will prevent committing decrypted files without sops metadata.

`.sopscommithook` content example:

```
!/bin/sh

for FILE in $(git diff-index HEAD --name-only | grep <your vars dir> | grep "secrets.y"); do
    if [ -f "$FILE" ] && ! grep -C10000 "sops:" $FILE | grep -q "version:"; then
        echo "!!!!! $FILE" 'File is not encrypted !!!!!'
        echo "Run: helm secrets enc <file path>"
        exit 1
    fi
done
exit
```

Additionally you could create a `.gitignore` to exclude decrypted files from checkin:

```gitignore
*.yaml.dec
```
